version 0.3.0 (#94)
inbo/checklist: vignettes/folder.Rmd

---
title: "Recommended folder structure"
output: rmarkdown::html_vignette
vignette: >
  %\VignetteIndexEntry{Recommended folder structure}
  %\VignetteEngine{knitr::rmarkdown}
  %\VignetteEncoding{UTF-8}
---

## For a simple R project

`checklist` assumes you have some main folder for your project.
Within that main folder you create the `checklist` project which should contain all R related files (scripts and data).
Place all non R related files in other folders under the main folder.

The `checklist` project has a mandatory folder `source` where you place all the R and Rmarkdown files.
The other folders are optional.
The `data` folder holds all the data files for the analysis.
The `output` folder holds the rendered files from the analysis.
The `media` folder holds the images you want to incorporate in the Rmarkdown files.
The `inst` folder stores some `checklist` specific data.

While you can add other folders the root of your `checklist` project, we recommend to stick with the default folders.

> Having a non standard folder name results in a warning when running `check_folder()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Having a nonstandard folder name results in a warning when running `check_folder()`.
```

Author: fixed in [60f3b39](https://github.com/inbo/checklist/pull/94/commits/60f3b395f45b74f7ff493bf9d73e8a7530419d3a)

In case you want to use version control (strongly recommended), use the root of the R project as the root of the version control project.

```
─┬─ main_folder
 ├─── folder_a
 ├─── folder_b
 └─┬─ r_project_name
   ├─── data
   ├─── inst
   ├─── media
   ├─── output
   └─── source
```

## A more complex project

> We advise to use sub folders with `source`, `data` and / or `media` when the project is more complex.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We advise to use subfolders with `source`, `data` and / or `media` when the project is more complex.
```

> You are free create a relevant folder structure with these folders.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You are free to create a relevant folder structure with these folders.
```

E.g. `source/import` for scripts to import data; `source/analysis` for scripts to run the analysis and `source/report` for the `bookdown` report.

```
─┬─ main_folder
 ├─── folder_a
 ├─── folder_b
 └─┬─ r_project_name
   ├─┬─ data
   │ ├─── raw
   │ ├─── intermediate

>    │ └─── raw

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   │ └─── processed
```

Reviewer: 2 times raw
